this video is a little bit different for
what I usually do I could separately
make a video talking about these issues
in a more global broadly applicable
manner that would make sense for any
political context where vegans are
thinking about taking the vegan message
and adapting it to go to the polls to
actually participate in electoral
politics to try to get people elected
but I struggled with kind of take 1 take
2 take 3 of trying to do that I thought
you know what let's stop and let's
actually make a video just talking about
vegan politics here in Victoria British
Columbia Canada so this is one case
study and I want to say also you know
this has come up when people criticize
me for being a critic they say how do
you criticize this is very very
different from offering film criticism
after a movie is already in theaters
when your criticism can't possibly
change the movie the reality is I'm
offering this criticism at a time when
the elections we're talking about are
very much ongoing they're at step one
they're just the beginning when the
criticism were having could really raise
productive questions and could stimulate
people to come to new Answers and adopt
new strategies and to learn more from
the experience of what's going on here
politically as it happens so this is not
criticism um you know if you criticize a
film nobody's gonna go back and re-edit
the film in response their criticism it
can't really have those kinds of
positive outcomes right and there are
positive things about what we can learn
and who we can work with and what can
come out of this um
Victoria is not a big city but it is the
capital city of this province so
politics is a big industry here it
employs a lot of people a lot of people
who are employed with the government and
the scene for vegan activism is very
small and I think I can safely say it is
largely closed so I've come here and
some people here do recognize me as a
kind of YouTube celebrity within
veganism I don't know if I mentioned
this to you Bay but what one person I
was posting was actually posting about
buying secondhand equipment for the
kitchen we just furnished this apartment
and someone I remember replied to that
post by saying Oh
YouTube's loyalty that is commented this
so there are some people there vegans
that washed up on YouTube they they know
me this way yeah but in terms of who are
the local leaders and activists here in
Victoria they are not happy to see me
they're not
none of them are interested in coming on
my channel and doing an interview
promoting their work on my channel none
of them are inviting me to come to a
protest and on the contrary when I
volunteered to go to and participate in
a a vegan protest not to specify what
kind of protest I was kicked out of the
Facebook group so you know and I've
asked I've asked Jordan himself the god
this video is really about what happened
why was I kicked out of his Facebook why
was I not you know and these seem groups
are constantly preaching openness and
cooperation I have videos I could link
to right now on YouTube where Jordan and
his girlfriend Cory are preaching the
importance of cooperation collaboration
so on and it's like well none of you can
cooperate with me when I get off the
airplane I get back from two years in
China and I'm really just here to
cooperate with people and and do some
positive yeah so it's a small town the
amount of talent here is is finite and
you know I wonder look I said this
earlier in the bodybuilder video when I
sit down in that room it's a bunch of
people planning for a municipal election
planning for participating in electoral
politics I don't think anyone is happy
to hear me say because this how
introduce myself my degree is in
political science from University of
Toronto I have experience working in a
municipal political campaign planning
and running a campaign I learned a lot
from that experience only they'll
haven't once in my life was a very small
campaign really there were only two
people involved so the Green Party
campaign to get someone elected in
Toronto as alderman or city councilor
however you want to ever you want to
term it is the local government you know
representative but I was really involved
in that campaign I learned so much it
was a pivotal turning point in my life
and how I think about politics in so
many ways and this is really what I'm
into you know I'd really like to pause
look at you
so as positive that message is I think
the reception in the room is was pretty
icy I think nobody wants to hear that I
think I mean politics
it's the ultimate topic on which
everybody wants to feel like they're an
expert and nobody wants to recognize
that there are specialized the areas of
expertise there might be something you
learn by getting a degree in political
science by formally studying this and
what have you people want it's cuz it
politics it overlaps so much with a
sense of identity and morality and
everything else I think nobody's
happening that what I said just to
finish notes cuz you already know that
it's you were there what I said the
bodybuilder was by contrast I know that
same were to that same room of people
would have responded so positively if
idea said hey I'm a student in baking
college I'm gonna study and become a
vegan Baker I'm gonna bake bread and
cakes for you guys isn't that great you
would have you would have gotten so much
warmth than positive interest yeah I was
just going to say I do remember one
woman saying that basically do what you
have to do to get elected and once
you're elected then you can focus on
animal rights issues when you're in an
elected position right so that was a
positive response I think influenced by
what you say you're right knowing what I
said the meeting in couple other people
there was a man sitting on the left to
who reacted who was taking on board what
I said in terms of the phrasing or just
I'm partly gonna respond to just that
nomenclature using its it is different
when we talk about animal rights and we
talk about veganism one of the things I
said this in the meeting very briefly
but you and I discussed it afterwards -
it's an interesting point the way they
were talking about veganism was as if
this campaign to be elected would be
implicitly and inescapably about the
fact that this guy is vegan the people
would either vote for him or vote
against him because he's vegan like
period alright and one of the things I
said in the election was I said sorry I
said in the meeting about the election I
said that is just as misguided as me
running for office here and thinking
people are gonna vote for me or vote
against me because I'm a Jew that's part
of your background that's part of the
little blurb on your bio you know the
bio you know he happens to be involved
in veganism and animal rights that that
is but the vast majority of people will
just regard that as as if it were part
of your ethnicity
you know that's how it is to outsiders
about veganism and understandably so the
the current leader of the NDP so the NDP
is our Democrat Party in Canada the most
left-wing of the of the mainstream party
he's uh he is I think in the past was
vegetarian and says he's gonna become
vegan and you know he has a long beard
and wears a turban and you know in terms
of who judged him or who votes for who
votes against him it speaks well of
Canada I don't think his ethnicity
really matters that much sure maybe it
matters 5% or 10% Amin matter a little
bit but I'm ok with it there are
exceptions I think you know Barack Obama
does as does his ethnicity matter you
know in a certain momentous
circumstances in history it matters but
most of the time people are going to
commit to vote for you or not vote for
you because of the promises you make in
the spirit of public service now it may
sound like a let's bring down earth what
do I mean I get I said this at the
meeting in the last City elections we
had here in Victoria I was here during
them pretty much every candidate was
known as the guy who was for the bridge
or the guy who was against the bridge we
also have a controversy here but sewage
treatment the guy who was in favor of
this plan for sewage treatment the guy
who was against it
there were just a few issues like that
where the public knows your commitment
to the issue and you have maybe won a
sentence in the public imagination where
you can tell people this is what I'm
about this is what I'm gonna do for you
does it matter whether or not you're
Jewish whether your diet is kosher
whether or not your background is jiying
or Hindu or Sikh you know you're from
India none of that matters nearly so
much as what you're saying in that one
sentence hey this is my commitment hey
I'm gonna make sure we do build the
bridge or I'm gonna make sure we don't
build the bridge I'm gonna make sure the
suits you this kind of thing and I mean
I that may sound low and mean-spirited
it's not if you're elected to government
as a city councilor you are a civil
servant you're serving the public
interest and you've got to tell them
what you're gonna do in that subway
service you've got to commit to that and
it's they're only gonna be a few things
like that that you commit to and then
for 99.9% of the public the fact that
you're vegan matters as little
as the fact that you may be Hindu or
Buddhist or Jewish
I get unless you're living in an
intensely racist society where it really
matters where the anti-semitism is such
a big deal that you're actually
campaigning on your Judaism as an issue
you know what I doubt it
so that was that was a very strange
thing in terms of self perception
episode but in terms of the way you just
phrased in this comment you're talking
about animal rights sorry said you have
more to say under that heading
I mean look you're not being elected to
a position of government that has
anything to do with animal rights and
this guy this candidate Jordan Richard
he does have a background in campaigning
for animal rights he also has a
background in drug rehab and treatment
for drug addicts homeless people trying
to get people into better jobs better
housing situations and what have you um
I'm sorry I thought there was a third
plank something else I was gonna mention
is his background no okay given the
advice of maybe making one of the
campaign promises right right right
so that guy and that was a guess right
that wasn't something I I think I raised
I think other people in the room were
also talking about that right so those
the possibility you could build this
campaign on on with the rent being too
high in Victoria right so you know these
are kind of ideas ideas that were in the
room but you know um you know you can
choose to campaign on the promise that
you're gonna solve the drug problem here
in Victoria that's a problem that
matters to everybody and that's a
problem that is in your jurisdiction if
you're elected this position you say
look if I'm elected this is my position
on the drug epidemic and the city this
is how I'm going to solve it or this is
my position on homelessness and here's
what I'm gonna do about it you can have
specific policies that you commit to but
when I asked him about that and again I
spoke very briefly at this meeting his
response was to retreat to no he doesn't
support any position on those issues
he just represents compassion a
compassionate approach to these issues
and this is I've talked about in a few
YouTube videos this is one of those
problems in politics of people
perceiving weaknesses strengths where
people think the Viger I make this
message the stronger it is and that's
the exact opposite the truth claiming
that you represent compassion is really
weak compared to coming forward and
saying this is my position on building
the bridge this is my position on sewage
treatment this is my specific promise to
you the public the vote or this is why
you shouldn't why you should vote for me
yeah I thought it was interesting that
in this meeting there was a very first
meeting for his campaign yeah and he
said I don't want to talk about specific
policy issues yes you're right um which
I think at this point can be
understandable but also you know you
should be thinking about it well I I
really disagree so this comes back to
this image of there's a criticism of the
Rolling Stones
do you record an album so that you can
go it on tour or do you go on tour to
record your album right um you're right
he said he didn't want to make any
statement about any specific policies he
endorses so why you ready for government
yeah why is it you're coming to this
meeting and you're saying you're gonna
have focus groups and ask the public
what your position should be now there
are some situations in politics where
some of that you know can go on but the
fundamental concept of leadership in
politics is exactly that you come into
this race
with a commitment to achieve something
so I think the the clearest example of
this being really successful for someone
who's really a political outsider I
really didn't have money behind him or
polio support Jesse the body Ventura the
wrestler
Jesse Ventura key to him with us he was
a wrestler he was a professional
wrestler and he had a list of about four
or five things he wanted to accomplish
if elected they were really specific you
know with legal reforms and then he said
he would accomplish those things and
that was it
he would retire but you know there was
nothing else he was going to accomplish
he wasn't a career politician and he to
my knowledge she did he lived up for
that he passed the new laws exactly what
he promised then that's the point you
don't have to trust this person in some
more vague broad way to say oh if I'm
elected this this and this is what I'm
going to accomplish and that's it that's
what you're voting for you're voting for
these issues
that matter to you but as opposed to
coming in and saying hey I represent
compassion something very vague
something any political party can claim
to represent yeah if you vote for me
you're gonna get a compassionate
approach to these issues okay so what
are you actually gonna do about
homelessness what are you actually gonna
do about drug addicts what do you
actually need to do about the bridge or
sewage treatment or whatever the issue
is this tells me nothing it's not a
promise I can hold you to yeah it's not
a commitment to doing something positive
for the for the public it's also
something I don't think you can define
yourself I don't think it's as strong to
define yourself as being anti like I
think he mentioned he doesn't like the
idea of throwing drug addicts in prison
right
so being anti that you know a different
perspective on it a different option is
weak yeah yeah people are gonna vote for
solutions not for problems plus the word
compassion look something I really
learned from experience I mean I guess I
do this in theory before but I did the
experience of the political campaign I
was a part of in Toronto I really
learned how crucial it is to find an
issue that you alone represent for it to
be concrete specific Waggett wedge issue
and then make sure that your competition
can't take away from you you say hey I'm
the one candidate who has this position
on this issue I'm the one candidate who
will deliver this outcome for you the
public if the other guy that won't and
it's got to be something specific it if
you like
I started off being involved with
politics in the Green Party but what I
learned the hard way and again maybe I
knew this in theory but I guess I didn't
really think it through till was
actually involved in it in an electoral
campaign if you say we represent ecology
the Liberal Party can say that they also
represent ecology yeah if you say we we
represent less air pollution the
Conservative Party can say they
represent less air pollution ah but when
you say we will stop this power plant
from being constructed now it's
different the Conservative Party will
commit to a vague concept of improving
air quality the Liberal Party will
commit to a vague concept of ecology ah
but on this
powerplant that all the other parties
are in bed with you know they're already
committed to being assertive we're the
guys will stop it will cancel this
project no of course multibillion-dollar
approach any power plant is a huge
budget project right yeah but it's you
can't campaign on compassion
you can't campaign on equality the
others have compassion equality ecology
none of these things they're all they're
all just vague Maxim's that almost any
political party or political candidate
can claim represent yeah I was just I
wanted to say he didn't actually say
with regards to veganism what actual
policies he would be against like right
no he did mention horse-drawn carriages
which I know in the past has been one of
his one of his I don't know if you would
say like you know one thing that he's
trying to stop in the city it's one of
the issues that got him into the
newspapers he's had newspaper covers
over his protests against or some
carrots right okay so without strong
carriages and also deer calling but he
did say like I'm going to run on this
right form of being anti deer calling or
we're anti horse-drawn carriages and I
think he has to realize that most people
will not vote on that basis because it
doesn't affect their lives well so like
rents or like you know that's I think
why he realizes he could focus on his
strength of having a pest and drug
rehabilitation are you campaigning to
win his answer was yes he's actually
trying to get elected and that was
talked about or are you campaigning to
be a platform for veganism or for some
other message I would be totally happy
to run in an election where I know I
can't win I said look I'm running in
this election to ask tough questions
about ecology veganism health policy you
name it you know I could have some PCRM
style stuff about you know why are we
encouraging stop feeding dairy to our
kids in school right hey stop feet why
do we have dairy and eggs being fed to
people in hospitals yeah I'm you can ask
this so it's it's it's illegal to smoke
cigarettes in hospitals but we feed them
fried eggs you know what's that about so
yeah I could make a list of things but
say look I'm running to raise these
issues there
the issues I wanted or attention to I
don't think I can win but I think
there's another kind of moral victory
and ever since that's not his approach
interestingly but if you're playing to
win and the card you're playing is I'm
the guy who's against deer culling or
I'm the guy who's against horse-drawn
carriages we know exactly what the
outcomes gonna be that's what you did in
the last election which was 2017 it's
not ancient history this is 2018 who's
to the in 2017 you've got 102 votes so I
mean maybe this time it'll be a hundred
and ten but you know running on those
issues that even vegans don't support
you about yeah cuz we're about above 2%
of the population here is vegan here in
Victoria people you're not even getting
that yeah because it's a different
election he thinks because we've got the
option of voting for eight people that
someone will be willing to use one of
their eight votes on him if they see
compassion if they see this this term
but yeah probably right you'd probably
get some votes that way yeah I don't
know so yeah I think even on even going
with the same strategy he did last time
he probably will get more votes than the
last one right you only had one vote
sure that is true there is a difference
that in the the prior election where you
got only hundred two votes each person
voting only had one vote and this time
they have multiple votes that they can
apportion on the ballot in a little bit
more of a dynamic way so that that is
true it may also be that he gets more
votes because he has lousy or
competition in the last election he
running for the animal Alliance Party of
Canada he got fewer votes than the
Libertarian Party which is a tiny party
so I mean that's that's how a marginal
you are right now you're less successful
that you could learn from what the
libertarians are doing and double your
number of votes I mean it's you're at
this level right and for me I mean
something like horse-drawn carriages
that's marginal and dubious even within
veganism I'm you know whereas something
like saying hey if I'm elected I'm gonna
challenge the school boards why are you
teaching our children to drink milk when
we know it's not healthy I think that's
a strong suit for veganism that's
something that might interest people who
are who are not
but you know my advice you know if you
are actually playing the win if you're
actually trying to get elected what I
said to him was you have to pick a wedge
issue and make it your own
something a distinctive issue that
matters to the public that's that's only
your issue that other people aren't
aren't standing on and see this is the
other thing keep so I'm just giving
ahead a bit but he said in response to
this advice which I'm not fully fleshing
out here he said well it didn't matter
because everyone knew him as the animal
rights guy so he was just gonna run as
the animal rights guy anyway cuz that's
how everybody knew it
right no I didn't say this but it was
like at the time I was thinking right
everybody is a hundred and two people
okay a hundred and two people voted for
last night it's just not the case view
of a mass won't leak on the basis of any
warrants but what I did so I didn't say
that to him what I didn't say then next
my next piece of advice to him was look
you're thinking about this the wrong way
on in this election I said a lot of
people in this room mentioned the drug
addiction issue and your background is
someone who counsels drug addicts videos
that a lot of people in this room right
now work cited about the possibility of
you making the drug crisis your wedge
issue your go-to issue I said if you
become the anti-drug guy whatever want
to say if that's you come then for this
election for the perspective of the
electorate that's who you are if you
decide to make your wedge issue the
low-rent issue if you say the rent is
too damn high you're gonna make a
campaign over-promising to have lower
rent for people then for the electorate
voting for you for this election that's
who you are that's what you represent
that's what you're promising to do and
the fact that you happen to be vegan or
happen to have a background animal
rights this is almost as irrelevant as
whether or not your background is being
Jewish or what-have-you
nor German I think he is German but you
know whatever your background maybe that
is not what people are voting for that's
not who you are for the public in this
election that's not what you're
committing to do that's not what you're
campaigning on and I mean that I think
the whole language of what I was
explaining to them was really very
foreign to them I think their way of
thinking about politics is on a deep
level not in a shallow level is identity
politics that all they want to do is say
hey I'm a good person
this is Who I am I am compassionate
vote for compassion vote for me and
there's no I mean there's really no
sympathy with the position of the voter
that the voter has probably a list of
complaints about things in Victoria they
think are terrible like you know in most
cities it's something like they want the
roads to be prepared we actually don't
have that problem here the roads are
fine you know but something something
like that that they're going to polls
they're animated by and they want to
hear from you your commitments on
exactly those issues and they're only
going to be one two or three of them
building the bridge building the sewage
treatment or it could be what are you
doing with the homeless of the drug
addicts what are you doing about the
rent being too high whatever it is you
know I don't know identity politics
maybe that's why people like your
Facebook page you know maybe you know
the sense of you being a good person of
your running on that in social media
maybe that does take you you kind of so
far and no further
but it seems to me a fundamental
misunderstanding of the role of
leadership that you are running as a
political leader not as someone who
asked the public what your what your
position ought to be but as someone
who's you know someone who's telling
them I'm committed to achieving this
goal if you vote for me that's the one
gonna achieve and a fundamental lack of
understanding but the civil servant
attitude that you're what as a public
servant saying this is what I'm gonna do
in your service if you give me your vote
yeah you got more you see like was it
something I think most people have a
negative opinion of politicians in
general yes so trying to say that I'm a
good person I'm a compassionate person
I also yeah that's really it's extra
hole oh right yeah I mean Donald Trump
ran on saying he's not a rapist and you
know Hillary Clinton I ran on promise
saying that Bill Clinton was not a
rapist and oh well you know you look at
the allegations with sexual propriety on
both sides and it's pretty dark all over
but yeah um I really feel that so that's
a perception of weakness as strength as
as soon as you want to talk about
specific policies of just trying to
retreat behind compassion or even
ecology or what-have-you
saying no you know if you don't commit
now if you don't commit before
go to the ballot box how can we expect
the whole video count how we expect to
be accountable after you've been elected
after you've got a budget and a salary
to carry these things out yeah and I
guess another thing that I would want to
talk about we have you know you and I
agree on this but I think there is a
splinter within veganism of people who
are animal lovers yes not animal lovers
but you know obviously we care about
animals and care about the well-being of
animals but you know how is that going
to be perceived by the public when you
say you know I know was a joke but uh
his girlfriend said it's a dream of mine
to have this funny ad for the campaign
like yep Jordan would be walking around
a park and be like interacting with
animals like deer and cats and dogs
right you know cause he's the candidate
who represents the animals right yeah
right and you know we had watched one of
his videos where he was at some
gathering of people and he told he told
them to vote for vote for the animals
like you know one vote for the animals
that's right so if you're going to you
know if you have pets like somebody
right if you love your dog you should
totally be a vote well that that's the
hardest part I find that's what I found
her is to describe to outsiders by the
scenario I talked to someone else about
this this morning over Skype and he said
oh so the guys campaigning on a vegan
platform and I'd say no not really
it's not a vegan platform it's a it's a
for the animals it's all of the animals
platform and if you do that so he
already has a track record you can get
102 votes but it's a totally surreal
political platform to run on that's like
uh it's much more Korean to run on just
to give an example an anti-war platform
you can be a vegan person who supports
animal rights and says hey I'm mad as
hell about the war I want Canada to
leave the war make
big morale thing out of that you can be
the anti-war person yeah and people at
least know what they're voting for you
know this thing about about crafting his
political message about like the idea
the animals love him and he loves
animals it's weird and you can watch the
videos yourself on YouTube they have
very very few views compared to even my
own modest you know number of viewers on
on the internet um you know I think it's
safe to say you look at those videos
nobody wants to hear it yeah well during
the lecture so this was an event
entirely attended by his supporters I
mean you know what naturally the nature
of the event I think there was one guy
who was there because his mom brought
him who wasn't really sport there couple
people of that but basically everyone is
there because they support him and I've
got to say for most of this event the
majority of people were bored I can't
say everyone was bored but there were a
lot of long periods where you know you
see her sitting in the room you look
around the table this was boring to
people and his lectures that I have sat
through I forced myself to sit on
YouTube and listen to his lectures we
sitting at a podium at an all candidates
event that means it's a debate basically
where each of the candidates makes a
statement
they don't really directly debate each
other so much but you know you have
contrasting lectures from each of the
candidates before an election and I I'm
so biased in this guy's favor right I'm
also vegan I also care about ecology
there's a lot there are a lot of guys
there and I find this boring I find it
totally boring and what I care about
politics I care about someone's all the
stuff I'm passionate about oh you know
all these issues but it's like you can't
even reach me you're alienating me and
you're boring me with your approach to
this issue that really can be
symptomatic of a bottom line cause so
look I I brought my girlfriend of this
event I've known Jordan not personally
but know some extent I've known a person
I should talk about some person stuff
for more than three years um I didn't
know the going to svet I didn't know
what his platform would be I did assume
there would be more of a spirit of him
learning the lessons of the failure of
his last campaign and taking on a new
direction or being open to seek unity
direction in this in this campaign and
it was really the opposite yes and it
was a hug
percent committed to repeating exactly
the errors others 2007's more votes
because of these right right you
probably will get more votes he'll
probably give more than 102 votes but I
don't think he'll win and if I'm wrong I
mean I'll be happy I guess you know be
one more vegan in a position of power in
Canada I guess but let me ask you you
have no commitment to to politics in
Victoria you know I can't vote here but
having been to this meeting and have him
here he made a statement do you want to
vote for Jordan Roger well I think as
you said having a vegan in politics
yeah I think I would be inclined to vote
for him yeah he seems like I'm put
together presentable like that just
generally you know like he seems like a
professional guys can't be
professionally hmm I think I probably
would like in this context of having
eight votes for council people yeah yeah
probably one of my votes but it depends
on you know other issues that the other
candidates present if I feel rationally
about something that they promise that
there is a candidate that's saying I'm
going to lower the rent committed to it
you know it's too damn high yeah
if I had to choose between one so so
choose that rather than deer calling or
write a platform of getting rid of
horse-drawn carriages to me obviously
it's pretty obvious what is more
important to me from either there were a
lot of red flags you know in this
already and you know look I I guess I
can say I sympathize with anyone who
wants to take on the challenge of taking
the vegan message and adapting it tab
impact at the polls you know in that
sense I'm a fan of what he's doing or
what in theory he's he's trying to do
but in terms of what his actual platform
is and what his message is there were a
lot there were a lot of red flags yeah
and you know I know from things he said
previously but also from things that
were said this meat
there was talking about you know violent
protests about burning down
vivisectionist laboratories remember
there was the discussion about
anti-vivisection ism in style and apart
from what he actually believes or what
he actually said what you saw with that
part of the discussion was that on the
level of rhetoric or debate or
discussion he's not capable of dealing
with that well right yeah
hmm so you know so that's that's a red
flag for me you know no matter whether
it's sincere or insincere or whatever
it's like well as a vegan as a vegan in
politics that's the kind of issue you've
you've got to be able to deal with yeah
you know and I've had um I rarely answer
insincerely I mean you see I'm overly
honest in most situations
but I have been in political situations
where somebody asked me was something
like this like well you know would you
abolish this or would you make this that
illegal and one of the answers I give is
you know we're in the middle of like a
300 year struggle like some of these
issues like look I can give you my
opinion but it doesn't matter
like fundamentally you know like
normally it's something like declawing
cats or something would I make it
illegal to declawed cats we just had a
law passed for that in eastern Canada
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick one of
those they just made it illegal to
declawed cats but I mean part of my
answer really is look you know we're
facing this crisis to do with factory
farming and mass production of meat and
what have you you know we have a lot to
tackle here but you know if you want my
specific position on declawing of cats
you know we're in the middle of a 300
year struggle this is it's gonna be
centuries before a lot of this stuff
gets gets resolved so this is not really
something you can you can give answers
that aren't evasive or dishonest but say
look let's see this in perspective let's
see this in this in this context yeah
yeah but I will just say you know I can
I can tell that I'm biased in this in
this way to say that I would vote for
him just because he is vegan sure when I
last voted in local elections I really
did look into every candidate and some
of them didn't have a website some of
them didn't have any kind of presence so
I really just voted for the ones that
actually seem to be putting forth an
effort like the ones that actually had a
website the ones who had a platform at
all not necessarily a good plan
um yeah I think if if it were the last
elections that I've been voting in and
he was an option and you know yeah we'll
see how his campaign goes but if you
actually you know yeah comes up with
some platform that I agree with in some
way yes then yeah you know when you're
in a political debate and one side is
trading in generalities in platitudes
and the other side is using we normally
say is using facts that have a face I
hate to say that's political jargon it's
whatever it is what it is you know so if
one person is talking about a platitude
like compassion and the other person
says vote for me there will be zero
homeless people in that Park downtown
within four years that has a face you
will be able to play with your kids in
that Park without drug addicts and
almost being in that Park that's my
commitment that's what I'm gonna achieve
yeah you know guess who gets the
applause and gets to get the vote
because one side is using facts that
have a face and once that is not now
another issue here of taking you to the
beaches here and I've told you there's
really no swimming because water
pollution in the beaches what if I mean
ecology is vague both sides can
represent ecology one says I represent
ecology and the other side says human
beings should be able to swim you and
your children should be able to put on
your swim trunks and swim at cadbury Bay
or at this Beach or that Beach you name
specific Beach you say last year 167
days of the year the water was too
polluted to swim in I'm committed to
that
those are facts that have a face and you
see you got to put the face on it you
got to say there's a person and they're
swimming Trump's going to the beach you
know you you flush it out you make it a
bit human so that's that's an aspect of
politicking yeah thanks for thanks
talking this through with me babe um you
know I say again what I said the
beginning this video this is not like
offering criticism of a film that's
already been edited and brought to a
theater near you these are these are
very much political campaign that's
that's it's step one in many ways it's
possible this video will have a positive
influence or raise positive questions
about the future of that campaign it's
possible it will result in me being
kicked out of another Facebook and
ostracized from another vegan group and
that Jordan will never talk
me again you know and I say also it's
it's really really hard giving advice
that nobody wants to hear and this is
why ultimately for me after now years of
experience in vegan activism and before
that experience with ecological activism
First Nations activism Southeast Asian
politics you know various spheres I mean
now my conclusion is that to have a
basis for activism type of platform for
activism we're gonna go back to school
and learn how to bake bread because if
you're baking cakes you're baking bread
you're baking pastries whether that's to
build bridges between you and other
vegans to collaborate or it's a form of
outreach to start the conversation
people are not vegans in so many
different ways I'm hoping that's gonna
be a more positive basis for my future
gaming engagement and vegan politics